Dr. Moreno is currently focused on investigating where AI meets web3, exploring how technologies such as Federated Knowledge Graphs, Decentralized Applications, Enriched Hypermedia Conceptual Models, and others may contribute to support decision-making in the Finance industry. Dr. Moreno has worked with AI for the past 7 years, leading a research team at IBM Research. The group's main goal was to advance the state-of-the-art in Knowledge Engineering for AI systems. In a multidisciplinary approach, Dr. Moreno has put together Knowledge Engineering techniques and Hypermedia fundamentals, devising a high-level hybrid knowledge representation to connect symbolic and non-symbolic nodes of a knowledge graph, as well as information extraction technologies for development, integration, and operation of systems. By studying these technologies, he has designed and implemented AI systems, network protocols, distributed applications, and conceptual models. Previously, he has also made contributions in open source projects as well as in reference implementations for standards, including the creation of the reference implementation of a Digital TV middleware named Ginga. In addition, he has made contributions in the specification of NCL, which is a declarative language for hypermedia-document authoring. Ginga and NCL are part of two international standards that he also contributed: ITU-T H.761 Recommendation for IPTV services and the ISDB-T standards. He has published more than 100 research papers in refereed international journals and conference proceedings, 13 patents granted in the US Patent Office. He was on the editorial board of the Brazilian Computing Magazine as an invited editor. He was also TPC member of international conferences, including ACM Multimedia, ACM MMSys, IEEE ISM, and IARIA MMEDIA, as well as chair and organizer of the first international workshop on Bridging the Gap between Semantics and Multimedia Processing (SeMP 2019, collocated with IEEE ISM 2019), the first international workshop on Multimedia Support for Decision-Making Processes (MuSDeMP’16, collocated with IEEE ISM 2016), and the first international workshop on Synchronism of Things (SoT’16, collocated with ACM WebMedia 2016). He has got the best PhD award from ACM EuroITV’10, and the Oscar Niemeyer Award for Scientific and Technological Projects in 2011.

## Recent professional activities, skills and achievements:

https://www.linkedin.com/in/marcio-moreno-phd-598a459a/

http://scholar.google.com.br/citations?hl=en&user=PfdmrPUAAAAJ
